<!-- SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-4.0 -->
<!-- Copyright Contributors to the OpenColorIO Project. -->

March 25, 2019

Host: Michael Dolan

Rotating Secretary: Doug Walker

Attendees:
  * [x] Mark Boorer (_TSC_) - Industrial Light & Magic
  * [x] Sean Cooper (_TSC_) - DNEG
  * [X] Michael Dolan (_TSC Chair_) - Sony Pictures Imageworks
  * [ ] Larry Gritz (_TSC_) - Sony Pictures Imageworks
  * [X] Thanh Ha - Academy Software Foundation / Linux Foundation
  * [ ] Patrick Hodoul (_TSC_) - Autodesk
  * [X] John Mertic - Academy Software Foundation / Linux Foundation
  * [X] Carl Rand (_TSC_) - Foundry
  * [X] Doug Walker (_TSC Chief Architect_) - Autodesk
  * [X] Kevin Wheatley (_TSC_) - Framestore
  * [X] Bernard Lefebvre - Autodesk
  * [X] Jim Houston - consultant

# **OCIO TSC Meeting Notes**

* OCIO 1.1.1 Release
    - There is one PR left (#705) to merge.  Please review.  

* OCIO-Configs license/copyright update
    - Michael prepared a PR (#17) to add the requested copyright notices.
        - Uses the new short-form LF license text.
    - Thomas pinged the contributers to the ACES config and we are awaiting their approval.
    - Question: Could we remove the local copies of the ACES CTL code?

* /ext refactor update
    - No progress this week.

* Google groups archive in GH repo?
    - We agreed that we didn't want to store these in the OCIO repo.
    - Decision was to store the mbox archives as groups.io files.
    - John has now done this.

* Google groups set to read-only, w/ auto-response
    - Sean: "Updated the google groups. Posting via website and email should be disabled and updated the welcome page note to point to the new lists."

* Rotating PR reviewer
    - Looking for ways to encourage people to spend more time helping with code reviews.
    - No objections to trying this to check if it's worthwhile.
    - Michael will put together a rotating list of names.

* ACES config
    - Carl: Thomas Mansencal and Alex Forsythe will be looking at making a 1.1 config.
    - Michael: The shapers used in the Output Transforms are causing clipping.
        - Michael/Mark: The ACEScct shaper works better.
        - Sean: The built-in log2/allocation transform might be better than a LUT.
    - Kevin: The inverse Output Transforms have problems (aside from the known issues with the CTL).
    - Chair: Please log issues on GitHub for problems/suggestions based on the 1.0.3 usage.

* Other items
    - Doug: Next v2 working group meeting is March 28 at 3 pm New York time.
