<!-- SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-4.0 -->
<!-- Copyright Contributors to the OpenColorIO Project. -->

Jan. 27, 2020

Host: Michael Dolan

Secretary: Patrick Hodoul

TSC members:
  * [ ] Mark Boorer (_TSC_) - Industrial Light & Magic
  * [X] Sean Cooper (_TSC_) - DNEG
  * [X] Michael Dolan (_TSC Chair_) - Epic Games
  * [ ] Larry Gritz (_TSC_) - Sony Pictures Imageworks
  * [X] Patrick Hodoul (_TSC_) - Autodesk
  * [X] John Mertic - Academy Software Foundation / Linux Foundation
  * [X] Carl Rand (_TSC_) - Weta
  * [X] Doug Walker (_TSC Chief Architect_) - Autodesk
  * [X] Kevin Wheatley (_TSC_) - Framestore

Attendees:
  * [X] Bernard Lefebvre - Autodesk
  * [X] Mei Chu - Sony Pictures Imageworks


Apologies:
  * Larry Gritz
  * Mark Boorer


# **OCIO TSC Meeting Notes**

* ASWF Planetary Meeting
    - Michael: Doug & me are working on the OCIO slides.
    - John: Would like to have them today if possible.
       - Audience is mostly people investing in ASWF i.e. more business folks than devs.
       - The content:
          1. High-level presentation of OCIO.
          2. What was done during the last 12 months.
          2. What is planned for the next 12 months.
    - Michael: Doug & me will do the presentation.

* Still old license notices
    - Patrick: We noticed some source files are not updated with the new copyright notice.
    - Michael: In some src/apps files the license remains unchanged on purpose.

* Pending PRs
    - Michael: Will perform reviews.

* Election
    - Michael: Wait a full week before contacting John with the agreement. 
    - John: Need to codify general rules for renewal and add them to the governance document.
    - Michael: **TODO** I will have a look.

* Foundry Representative(s)
    - Carl: Foundry thinks about having 2 representatives.
    - Michael: How to handle it?
    - John: It could be done via one official Foundry representative and one personal registration
            (i.e. TSC meetings are open to anyone) or by extending TSC to add more members.
    - Doug: Highlights the constraint to have 'active' TSC members to avoid potential quorum blockage.
    - John: How to best represent the community in the TSC membership?
    - Michael: **TODO** Will answer to Foundry.
