<!-- SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-4.0 -->
<!-- Copyright Contributors to the OpenColorIO Project. -->

February 2, 2021

Host: Michael Dolan

Attendees:
  * [X] Mark Boorer (_TSC_) - Industrial Light & Magic
  * [X] Michael Dolan (_TSC Chair_) - Epic Games
  * [X] Carol Payne (_TSC_) - Netflix
  * [X] Doug Walker (_TSC Chief Architect_) - Autodesk
  * [X] Dennis Adams - Sony
  * [X] Zach Lewis - Method
  * [X] Scott Dyer - A.M.P.A.S.
  * [X] Kevin Wheatley (_TSC_) - Framestore
  * [X] Thomas Mansencal - Weta Digital
  * [X] Matthias Scharfenberg - Industrial Light & Magic
  * [X] Deke Kincaid - Digital Domain
  * [X] Joseph Goldstone - ARRI

# **OCIO Configs Working Group Meeting Notes**

* Building the ACES reference config:
    - Michael: All needed builtin transforms are present. Will need to sort out 
      mapping between CTL and transforms, but should be ready for further 
      config generator work as Thomas and others have time.
    - Thomas: Have a branch in progress that uses spreadsheet data to map 
      between the two. Can continue working on that. Hit some errors while 
      generating, from missing expected transforms.
    - Doug: Was some adjustment of strings from spreadsheet. Minor changes.
    - Michael: Also removed DCDM ODTs, based on discussion from previous 
      meeting. Perhaps we should put file in repo with hard-coded mapping.
    - Thomas: Yes, can then just update that file.
    - **TODO**: Thomas will continue working on reference config generation.

* Studio config first steps:
    - Michael: I think we're ready to start the second phase discussion. How 
      should we decide what to include in the config?
    - Thomas: Start with what we want to include, and that will inform it.
    - Michael: Could base it on current ACES config initially.
    - Carol: Start spreadsheet which lists color spaces from current ACES 
      config. We can then compare them, and that will get us most of the way 
      there. Possibly eliminate things.
    - Michael: Could send to community for input too.
    - Doug: Could use python script to read current ACES config and write it 
      out to CSV. Import that into Sheets.
    - **TODO**: Carol and/or Michael will start spreadsheet with current ACES
      config data. Group/community can adjust and comment on changes from 
      there.
