<!-- SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-4.0 -->
<!-- Copyright Contributors to the OpenColorIO Project. -->

January 29, 2021

Host: Michael Dolan

Attendees:
  * [X] Michael Dolan (_TSC Chair_) - Epic Games
  * [X] Carol Payne (_TSC_) - Netflix
  * [X] Mark Titchener (_TSC_) - Foundry
  * [X] Doug Walker (_TSC Chief Architect_) - Autodesk
  * [X] Christophe Brejon
  * [X] Zach Lewis - Method

# **OCIO Configs Working Group Meeting Notes**

* Working group goals:
    - WIP outline for topics: 
      https://docs.google.com/document/d/1_NS2UMSjbkqoMI_tvdsaOvd8NIYg3MeWQ8pKpXFQEgM/edit?usp=sharing
    - Michael: Potential goals are to develop document outlining OCIO 
      implementation best practices, along with code examples.
    - Chris: Recent discussion on ACES central. From user point of view, most 
      software has implementation/usage examples.
    - Doug: Thread talked about how artists can be confused by concepts in 
      OCIO. We dont realize what’s going to be confusing for non 
      color scientists or those new to OCIO. Display space values vs. rendering 
      space values, etc. Helpful to clarify intent of roles, provide use cases, 
      user stories. What could improve usability.

* Roles:
    - Mark: Roles have been fundamentally misunderstood, how they were 
      intended to be implemented in DCC. With roles in Nuke, did what made 
      sense for each input file type. Can we come up more consistent roles 
      between different applications? Trying to keep those available more 
      consistently used, and then users can extend as needed. Mari needed more 
      roles than were available, and wanted to get asway from confusion of 
      using builtin roles. Mari specific roles solves some problems and 
      complicates others. Also fundamentals for DCCs implementing roles, how 
      they are exposed, ok to create own?
    - Zach: Could solicit user stories about ad hoc use of roles. Studios have 
      specific cases.
    - Mark: Some roles created in internal conflicts that shouldn’t be user 
      facing. Something to address. DCC implementation and end user 
      understanding.
    - Michael: Also have categories and encodings playing in now in v2.
    - Mark: Roles were previously aliases. Now we have separate aliases. Can 
      be confusing.
    - Zach: Doug brought up 2 axes for categories, user (beginner/advanced) 
      and task.
    - Chris: Will we create new roles? Color timing vs. color grading? Color 
      picking or color selection/mixing?
    - Michael: Removing roles would break backwards compatibility. Changes 
      public API. Can add roles though if needed.
    - Doug: Can create application specific roles.
    - Zach: Great to have central place for app developers to share custom 
      roles.

* Examples:
    - Carol: Tossed around idea of adapting apps to be good example. Is that a 
      goal? This is how it's done and examples, and DCCs have choice.
    - Doug: Think it would be helpful for sample code to reflect best 
      practices.
    - Mark: We've talked about identifying areas where it's clear to use them. 
      Do we just write docs and provide examples? Create OFX plugins?
    - Michael: OFX and ociodisplay are both good opportunities for examples.
    - Carol: Could work with OIIO IV too.
    - Michael: Could the Nuke plugins be shared as examples?
    - Mark: Want to do that. Need to untangle from Nuke as much as integrate 
      v2. Trying to work on underlying design.
    - Michael: Nuke important tool for color scientists and experimentation 
      with OCIO.
    - Mark: Not a lot of fundamental changes from nodes in repo.
    - Zach: Looking forward to interchanging CLF and CTF node graphs. Artists 
      can construct these graphs with arbitrary nodes.
    - Doug: Should be viable. Take OCIO transform.
    - Mark: If people using same reference, interpolability becomes better.

* Viewport controls:
    - Michael: Another important topic is viewport controls for same 
      appearance between apps. New DisplayView transform is more open than the 
      LegacyViewingPipeline, so could diverge more easily.
    - Zach: Yes, like order of operations with exposure and contrast.
    - Doug: Agree good topic of conversation. Reason ExposureContrast 
      transform has multiple modes is that our internal tool had those modes. 
      LegacyViewingPipeline implementation converts to scene linear to apply 
      exposure. Fine for viewing single image, but for other app with realtime 
      log playback, do you want to do log to lin just to do exposure? Big 
      performance hit for 4k, 8k. DisplayView transform the core part of it. 
      Needs consistency between apps. Stripped out other pieces because some 
      apps want to do those steps differently. Good to have best practice for 
      guidance on what to do.
    - Zach: Color space attributes can inform that.

* Dynamic parameters:
    - Michael: Dynamic parameters example for supporting uniforms would be 
      good. Can be a little confusing at first.
    - Doug: Unit tests best source right now.

* Grading transforms:
    - Zach: Good to have beasic interface for playing with RGB grading curves 
      too.
    - Michael: Are the grading transforms supported by CLF or CTF?
    - Doug: If you call write on transform to CLF format, will need to bake 
      these. CTF can support all OCIO transforms though.
    - Michael: Is CTF a standard? Can others implement?
    - Doug: OCIO is open source implementation of CTF. There is some docs in 
      AD product docs, but doesnt include all of it. To clarify on CTF. Started 
      as AD thing. Now think of it as native format of OCIO. Can always 
      serailize to this format.

* Task distribution:
    - Michael: For this meeting: Topical discussion on different pieces? One 
      per meeting perhaps.
    - Doug: Yeah, how do you make progress in wg? Hard to have tangible output.
    - Carol: This group similar to ACES implementation groups. If implementors 
      not part of conversation, not sure. If works if software implementors can 
      come to an agreement.
    - Doug: How are going to make progress in group? Comes down to what extent 
      people are willing to spend time between meetings producing something 
      tangible. Something written down, enhancements, etc. Or convincing 
      someone else to do that. Relies on people taking action between meetings.
    - Carol: I think doc is good place to start, but good to reach out to 
      implementors to see what’s confusing. If you were looking to make 
      improvements for interacting with OCIO, what’s stopping you?
    - Chris: I can contribute outline and examples of different ways 
      applications have implemented color picking.
    - Michael: Color picking complicated for diffuse textures and lit images. 
      Great topic to cover.
    - Doug: Clears the way for rest of work.
    - Zach: My immediate priority is finishing doxygen translation. Making 
      progress, but want to crank out that. Can write about considerations for 
      config authoring after that.
    - Mark: And how to represent that in UI as well. Taking info from config 
      and what best practices are for that. Willing to do things between 
      meetings. UI facing things we would outline or document. Too much to go 
      through. Need a way to prioritze it.
    - Carol: Could be separate event to reach out to people with how design 
      looks and get feedback.
    - Doug: Happy to share my take on these things. Don’t want to say how 
      everyone has to do it. Rather share thought process. How others can add 
      value on top of that. Sharing concrete examples. Each product has unique 
      priorities. Depending on releases, may or may not be able to implement 
      things the way we like.
    - Mark: Agree that reference implementation would be nice to do on 
      assumption that there are limitless resources. Could form good basis to 
      know things you would like to do.
    - Doug: With OFX plugins could provide example that would be not fanciest, 
      but would have core concepts, how to use categories, etc. UI and sample 
      code.
    - Mark: Happy to mock up UIs for how to present options, and properties 
      panel. Higher level outline.
    - Michael: Can create outline from shared doc, including concepts we might 
      want to cover. Can then divide tasks amongst group to progress.
