<!-- SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-4.0 -->
<!-- Copyright Contributors to the OpenColorIO Project. -->

May 27, 2019

Host: Michael Dolan

Rotating Secretary: Michael Dolan

Attendees:
  * [ ] Mark Boorer (_TSC_) - Industrial Light & Magic
  * [ ] Sean Cooper (_TSC_) - DNEG
  * [X] Michael Dolan (_TSC Chair_) - Sony Pictures Imageworks
  * [ ] Larry Gritz (_TSC_) - Sony Pictures Imageworks
  * [X] Patrick Hodoul (_TSC_) - Autodesk
  * [ ] John Mertic - Academy Software Foundation / Linux Foundation
  * [ ] Carl Rand (_TSC_) - Foundry
  * [X] Doug Walker (_TSC Chief Architect_) - Autodesk
  * [ ] Kevin Wheatley (_TSC_) - Framestore
  * [X] Bernard Lefebvre - Autodesk

# **OCIO TSC Meeting Notes**

* Pull Requests:
    - PR #750 nearing the 2 week mark, needs review.
        - Michael: Will review today
        - Bernard: Adds FixedFunction, Gamma, and Log transform support to CTF parsing.
        - Michael: Does that complete the CTF integration?
            - Doug: No, there is more coming, after this PR is merged.
        - Doug: Participating in the ACES CLF working group:
            - New transforms being added to support Log, ExponentWithLinear, etc.
            - Next version will allow transforms like ACEScct to ACES2065-1 without LUT
            - ACES 1.2 release later this year
    - Patrick: PR #735 should be finalized, merged.
        - Michael: will reach out to Carl

* ACES OCIO-Configs license inquiry
    - Michael: Havn't yet heard back from Alex about how to proceed with license; is 
               there someone else we should contact?
        - **TODO**: Ask Sean to raise this question at ACES TAC

* Azure-pipelines Update
    - Michael: Integrated Docker images into CI this weekend; was really simple to 
               setup and will make it simpler to add or change build matrix.
        - ASWF DockerHub can be used, and doesn't require link with GitHub, so not
          bound by license scan issues.
        - Building images based on VFX Ref Platform versions, as much as possible.
        - Docker is supported for Linux and Windows only.
        - Michael: Asks Patrick if he has a Windows Docker image as a starting point?
            - Patrick: Is working on Windows, so only has Linux images, but has bat
                       scripts that could be a starting point for setting up Windows
                       env. Will send them to Michael.
    
