<!-- SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-4.0 -->
<!-- Copyright Contributors to the OpenColorIO Project. -->

September 16, 2019

Host: Doug Walker

Rotating Secretary: Carl Rand

Attendees:
  * [X] Mark Boorer (_TSC_) - Industrial Light & Magic
  * [ ] Sean Cooper (_TSC_) - DNEG
  * [ ] Michael Dolan (_TSC Chair_) - Sony Pictures Imageworks
  * [X] Larry Gritz (_TSC_) - Sony Pictures Imageworks
  * [X] Patrick Hodoul (_TSC_) - Autodesk
  * [ ] John Mertic - Academy Software Foundation / Linux Foundation
  * [X] Carl Rand (_TSC_) - Foundry
  * [X] Doug Walker (_TSC Chief Architect_) - Autodesk
  * [X] Kevin Wheatley (_TSC_) - Framestore
  * [ ] Bernard Lefebvre - Autodesk

Apologies:
   Michael Dolan

# **OCIO TSC Meeting Notes**

* Do we need to support GCC 4 and 5 anymore?
    - Doug raised that pull request #831 removes macros specific to these versions of GCC.
    - Patrick raised that as we add more C+11 features the more we will be restricted.
    - Kevin thinks we should definitely drop support for GCC 3.
    - Patrick thought dropping GCC 3 would be fine and should be done in the main branch.

* Azure CI build
    - Patrick raised that the communication between Azure and Github is broken.
    - Even when a pull request passes it still remains highlighted as red.
    - Because of this an administrator has to sign off each individual pull request which is slowing the whole process down.
    - It looks like a bug in the Azure side.
    - We are currently waiting on the Azure team to fix the issue.

* Python bindings
    - Doug asked if there was a way to use pybind11 in an automatic way due to the destructor being private?
    - Patrick hasn't been able to find a nicer way to do it without making a major change to the API.
    - The only way seems to be to change the destructor from private to public.
    - Making the destructor public might be the best and simplest solution.
    - Doug thought if we went the public route we would need to document it in the API and explain that no one should really call this themselves.
