July 31, 2019

Hosts: Michael Dolan

Rotating Secretary: Doug Walker

Attendees:
  * [x] Mark Boorer (_TSC_) - Industrial Light & Magic
  * [ ] Sean Cooper (_TSC_) - DNEG
  * [x] Michael Dolan (_TSC Chair_) - Sony Pictures Imageworks
  * [ ] Larry Gritz (_TSC_) - Sony Pictures Imageworks
  * [x] Patrick Hodoul (_TSC_) - Autodesk
  * [x] John Mertic - Academy Software Foundation / Linux Foundation
  * [x] Carl Rand (_TSC_) - Foundry
  * [x] Doug Walker (_TSC Chief Architect_) - Autodesk
  * [x] Kevin Wheatley (_TSC_) - Framestore
  * Chris Bankoff - Method
  * Stephen Mackenzie - Method
  * Matthias Scharfenberg - ILM

Apologies:
  Sean, Larry

# **OCIO TSC Meeting Notes**

* Next steps on ASWF transition
    - Michael: Did a lot of license cleanup and need one more license scan.
        - Main license file changed from "All code by Sony Pictures Imageworks" to 
          "All code by Contributors to the OpenColorIO Project"
        - OIIO license is in twice, once for unit-test/string-util, and again for arg-parse.
    - John: The CLAs don't have license assignment/grant, everyone still owns their copyright.
    - Michael: OCIOConfigs problem with ACES license also has not been resolved.
        - Mark: Let's start a new repo rather than move the existing one.
    - Michael: Everything else is done.  Will probably have vote at next TAC meeting!
    - Not sure we have the authentication to fix the CI/Azure once the repo moves over.

* Planning a 1.1.2 release
    - VFX Reference Platform is currently "1.1.x".
    - Doug: Could we roll Joseph's Iridas cube writer into a release? (No API change needed.)
    - Patrick listed several bug fixes that would be nice to get out.
        - Mark: Sounds good.
    - Michael: Let's target a 1.1.2 for this fall.

* Are Java bindings used?
    - Mark: I did update them during the repo refactor.
        - We got some bug reports from someone using them on Android.
        - Not aware of specific apps though.
    - Michael: We're not testing them.  They may not work with the v2 changes.
    - Group: Should ask on ocoi-dev if anyone is using them.

* Vendor directory clean-up
    - Michael: Many of these are out of date.  Remove or keep as examples?
    - Michael: Mari now has a solid integration that doesn't use what's in the repo.
        - The ones in the repo are obsolete and perhaps should be removed.
    - The RV example may also be obsolete.
        - Michael: Would be great for community to contribute back to this.
        - Mark: We have a custom one but need to support clients using the ocio one.
    - Photoshop and AfterEffects are still valid and maintained.
    - Doug: For vendors that have official OCIO support, maybe this isn't useful anymore?
    - Mark: I would prefer the vendors provide up-to-date source for their implementations.
