<!-- SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-4.0 -->
<!-- Copyright Contributors to the OpenColorIO Project. -->

March 2, 2020

Host: Michael Dolan

Rotating Secretary: Michael Dolan

Attendees:
  * [X] Mark Boorer (_TSC_) - Industrial Light & Magic
  * [ ] Sean Cooper (_TSC_) - DNEG
  * [X] Michael Dolan (_TSC Chair_) - Epic Games
  * [X] Larry Gritz (_TSC_) - Sony Pictures Imageworks
  * [X] Patrick Hodoul (_TSC_) - Autodesk
  * [ ] John Mertic - Academy Software Foundation / Linux Foundation
  * [X] Carl Rand (_TSC_) - Weta Digital
  * [X] Doug Walker (_TSC Chief Architect_) - Autodesk
  * [X] Kevin Wheatley (_TSC_) - Framestore
  * [X] Carol Payne - Netflix

# **OCIO TSC Meeting Notes**

* Python binding update
    - Currently working on ImageDesc classes, which interface with NumPy and 
      any type with buffer protocol interface.
    - Encountered issue with multiple PackedImageDesc objects initialized with 
      different NumPy arrays overwriting each other's memory when their dtype
      and shape matches. Could be a hashing issue on Python side. Copying array
      on C++ side fixes it, but will continue to investigate.
    - **TODO**: Michael to share link to source in branch for input.

* Autodesk PRs ready for review
    - Doug: Discussed work at last week's v2 working group meeting. If there's 
      any questions, or more explanation needed, please let us know.

* ocio-user question
    - Patrick: A new user had question in ocio-user about how to get started. If 
      someone has cycles, a response would be appreciated, even if just to point 
      toward existing docs.
    - [ocio-user thread](https://lists.aswf.io/g/ocio-user/topic/getting_started_with_ocio/71538664?p=,,,20,0,0,0::recentpostdate%2Fsticky,,,20,2,0,71538664)

* GitHub activity:
    - Patrick: Responded to a new compilation issue #940
    
* GSoC:
    - There continues to be GSoC activity. Need to make sure that prospective 
      participants demonstrate the ability to troubleshoot and communicate 
      problems they encounter while building, contributing, etc., rather than 
      just wanting a quick solution.
    - Michael: As far as interested students submitting a PR, do they need to
      do that by the application timeframe, which is the later half of March?
    - Larry: No, as long as they demonstrate the ability to contribute before
      applications are reviewed by us, that is fine.
    - Michael: OCIO, OpenCue, and aswf-docker have all had students express 
      interest for GSoC, per last TAC meeting.
    - Larry: OpenEXR has had activity now too.
