<!-- SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-4.0 -->
<!-- Copyright Contributors to the OpenColorIO Project. -->

July 27, 2020

Host: Michael Dolan

Attendees:
  * [X] Mark Boorer (_TSC_) - Industrial Light & Magic
  * [X] Mei Chu (_TSC_) - Sony Pictures Imageworks
  * [ ] Sean Cooper (_TSC ACES TAC Rep_) - DNEG
  * [X] Michael Dolan (_TSC Chair_) - Epic Games
  * [X] Patrick Hodoul (_TSC_) - Autodesk
  * [ ] John Mertic - Academy Software Foundation / Linux Foundation
  * [X] Carol Payne (_TSC_) - Netflix
  * [X] Mark Titchener (_TSC_) - Foundry
  * [ ] Carl Rand (_TSC_) - Weta Digital
  * [X] Doug Walker (_TSC Chief Architect_) - Autodesk
  * [X] Kevin Wheatley (_TSC_) - Framestore
  * [X] Bernard Lefebvre - Autodesk
  * [X] Troy Sobotka
  * [X] Joseph Goldstone - ARRI
  * [X] Chin-Ying Li
  * [X] Simran Brucherseifer

# **OCIO TSC Meeting Notes**

* "Sanity check" function uses non-inclusive language:
    - Simran: Brought up in ASWF diversity Slack channel. This function uses 
      non-inclusive language related to mental health:
      [https://www.selfdefined.app/definitions/sanity-check/](https://www.selfdefined.app/definitions/sanity-check/)
    - Mark: Would be an API breaking change. No problem changing it though.
    - Kevin: "validity" check also not ideal.
    - Michael: What about just "validate"? Now is the time to change it since 
      the API has already changed for v2.
    - Carol: Should we do a sweep for other terms too? 
    - Simran: Yes. Only checked this one term so far, but can check others.
    - Kevin: Can you do a word scan?
    - Mark: Can open issue per term to discuss.
    - **TODO**: Simran will submit PR with suggested changes to promote 
      inclusive language.

* Status updates:
    - [Comment in this document's TOC for sections of documentation you would like to contribute to](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1AdCWgo_g7SHoVCakGTizs8j6AljSVfx1u6RKnyxIC2A/edit)
    - Michael: For open source days, suggest reusing DigiPro content and just 
      expanding for the audience.
    - TSC agrees on reusing content where possible.

* Apple silicon build and CI:
    - Joseph: Any discussion about support for Apple silicon?
    - Michael: This was discussed at the last CI working group. It's on the 
      radar and Apple has a representative in the group who is knowledgeable 
      on the subject. Ongoing discussion will continue.
    - Doug: We will need to check OCIO's SSE code.

* Logo discussion:
  - Logo type all caps or upper/lower mixed case? Discussion in #branding Slack 
    channel on this topic. Other ASWF projects use mixed case.
  - Carol: Like the all caps. Individual projects can have unique logos.
  - Doug: Adding spaces helped readability a lot. I see Emily's point for 
    consistency, but there is already some difference in ASWF logos.
  - Patrick: Good to have consistency across ASWF, but should not be mandatory. 
    Should do what's right for the project. Best to see what's appropriate for 
    OCIO first.

* Items for next TSC meeting agenda:
    - Discussion around whether additional static libs should be shipped for 
      libutils.
