<!-- SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-4.0 -->
<!-- Copyright Contributors to the OpenColorIO Project. -->

July 06, 2020

Host: Doug Walker

Rotating Secretary: Patrick Hodoul

Attendees:
  * [X] Mark Boorer (_TSC_) - Industrial Light & Magic
  * [X] Mei Chu (_TSC_) - Sony Pictures Imageworks
  * [X] Sean Cooper (_TSC ACES TAC Rep_) - DNEG
  * [ ] Michael Dolan (_TSC Chair_) - Epic Games
  * [X] Patrick Hodoul (_TSC_) - Autodesk
  * [ ] John Mertic - Academy Software Foundation / Linux Foundation
  * [X] Carol Payne (_TSC_) - Netflix
  * [X] Mark Titchener (_TSC_) - Foundry
  * [ ] Carl Rand (_TSC_) - Weta Digital
  * [X] Doug Walker (_TSC Chief Architect_) - Autodesk
  * [X] Kevin Wheatley (_TSC_) - Framestore
  * [X] Bernard Lefebvre - Autodesk
  * [X] Joseph Goldstone - ARRI
  * [X] Troy Sobotka

Apologies:
  Michael Dolan

# **OCIO TSC Meeting Notes**

* Recap. of the last documentation meeting
    - Doug summurized the discussions (check the meeting minutes for details):
      - Graham Fuller from Autodesk to advise on the documentation effort.
      - Discussion around the table of content.
      - No consensus on the overall documentation structure.

* The documentation structure starts a new discussion:
    - Sean: Put the documentation in a separate git repo or in a dedicated branch?
    - Joseph: Propose a 'cook book' style of documentation.
      For example, How to modify the config (Yaml) to do X?
    - Troy: Propose that it helps the transition to Python with step by step examples from trivial
      to more complex ones.
    - Mei: Propose that it contains use cases from Python to config (Yaml) changes.

* Config sanity check:
    - Troy: Way to improve the sanityCheck() for whitespace issues?
    - Mark: It relies on the Yaml library.
    - Patrick: Recent pull requests greatly improve the sanity checks.
    - Doug: Best would be to create an issue documenting the problematic cases.
    - Mei: Find a way to enforce syntax?
    - Mark & Patrick: No way as the Yaml library is permissive by design.

* During the discussion Mei asked about how to 'debug' a color transformation:
    - Patrick: Think about command line tool e.g. ociowrite to output an exact ctf representation
      of the color transformation.

