<!-- SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-4.0 -->
<!-- Copyright Contributors to the OpenColorIO Project. -->

January 6, 2020

Host: Michael Dolan

Rotating Secretary: Doug Walker

Attendees:
  * [ ] Mark Boorer (_TSC_) - Industrial Light & Magic
  * [ ] Sean Cooper (_TSC_) - DNEG
  * [x] Michael Dolan (_TSC Chair_) - Sony Pictures Imageworks
  * [x] Larry Gritz (_TSC_) - Sony Pictures Imageworks
  * [x] Patrick Hodoul (_TSC_) - Autodesk
  * [x] John Mertic - Academy Software Foundation / Linux Foundation
  * [ ] Carl Rand (_TSC_) - Foundry
  * [x] Doug Walker (_TSC Chief Architect_) - Autodesk
  * [x] Kevin Wheatley (_TSC_) - Framestore
  * [x] Bernard Lefebvre - Autodesk
  * [x] Dennis Adams - Sony
  * [x] Michael Min - Netflix

# **OCIO TSC Meeting Notes**

* PR #904 File Rules
    - Michael: Wondering if it would help to use sub-classes for the rule types.
    - Bernard: We considered it but it is simple enough right now not to need that.
    - Michael: Are rules required for v2 configs?
    - Bernard/Doug: No, the new rules are optional.
    - Michael: Strict parsing (ability to have app ask for color space when a rule is not
      found) is important, how will that work?
    - Bernard: The existing v1 API for that continues to work and we added a helper 
      function to detect if the default rule was the one that matched.
    - Michael: Good documentation will be key.

* GPU CI
    - Michael: John what is the status on our GPU CI ticket with LF?
      https://jira.linuxfoundation.org/servicedesk/customer/portal/2/IT-17952
    - John: Andy ran into some issues with Azure, he hopes to address them in the next week.
    - Doug: JF did a lot of work and prototyped a solution in his sandbox, we would like
      help from LF setting up something similar using Azure and an AWS instance.
    - Michael: We don't have permission to tinker with the Azure settings (also want to be
      careful to use cloud resources efficiently) so we are waiting on LF.

* Spark conference in Vancouver
    - Michael: Should start pulling a presentation together for this.  ACTION: Send link
      to a draft GoogleDoc.
    - Doug: I will add a slide for OCIO v2 feature progress.

* V2 update
    - Larry: Any update on OCIO v2 progress?
    - Doug: We feel we are still on track for the roadmap we shared last SIGGRAPH, namely
      that we plan to be feature-complete at the coming SIGGRAPH.

* CUDA
    - Larry: As GPU rendering becomes more widespread I expect it will be important to be
      able to have an OCIO CUDA rendering path.  Is that on anyone's radar?
    - Patrick: Agree that it is important at some point but it is not in the v2 plan.
      Would be great to get some help from other ASWF members on projects like that.
    - John: Suggest adding issues on GitHub for these projects.

* Google Summer of Code
    - Larry: I'm trying to get ASWF into GSoC this year.  Please start thinking about
      projects that an undergrad could take on as a summer project.

* Misc. Items
    - Doug: Academy Common LUT Format implementation VWG first meeting is Friday, 
      January 10, 1-2pm Los Angeles time.  https://global.gotomeeting.com/join/241798885
