<!-- SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-4.0 -->
<!-- Copyright Contributors to the OpenColorIO Project. -->

August 3, 2020

Host: Michael Dolan

Attendees:
  * [ ] Mark Boorer (_TSC_) - Industrial Light & Magic
  * [ ] Mei Chu (_TSC_) - Sony Pictures Imageworks
  * [X] Sean Cooper (_TSC ACES TAC Rep_) - DNEG
  * [X] Michael Dolan (_TSC Chair_) - Epic Games
  * [X] Patrick Hodoul (_TSC_) - Autodesk
  * [ ] John Mertic - Academy Software Foundation / Linux Foundation
  * [X] Carol Payne (_TSC_) - Netflix
  * [ ] Mark Titchener (_TSC_) - Foundry
  * [ ] Carl Rand (_TSC_) - Weta Digital
  * [X] Doug Walker (_TSC Chief Architect_) - Autodesk
  * [X] Kevin Wheatley (_TSC_) - Framestore
  * [X] Troy Sobotka
  * [X] Chin-Ying Li

Apologies:
  * Mark Boorer
  * Mei Chu

# **OCIO TSC Meeting Notes**

* Outstanding work to hit feature complete date:
    - Doug: Bare-bones website running by Aug 12th (DigiPro talk), for marketing 
      and building interest. Will be traffic following DigiPro.
    - Michael: Any areas of docs unaccounted for?
    - Doug: Grahame and I working on key pieces. Creating starting point, with 
      documented high level features. Other part is landing page - Carol 
      working on that.
    - Carol: Looking at Hugo for landing page. Seems simple enough to set up. 
      Hugo is better setup out of box. Easier to get started. Better support 
      community. Static site for gh-pages. Talking design ideas with Mario, but 
      will get something up for now.
    - Michael: Will have PR in by end of week with documentation sections 
      committed to.
    - Sean: Anyone able to get docs built?
    - Doug: Requires Python 3 so a bit problematic. Requirement for Sphinx 2, a 
      theme dependency, which is Python 3 only. 
    - Any other open infrastructure tasks?
    - Sean: Still working on API doc build. Current PR is for extracting 
      docstrings from python binding, blocked by a clang dependency.
    - Michael: Only potential issue is Windows. Clang is common on Linux, and 
      default on macOS. What do you need to complete API work?
    - Sean: Getting workflow down for extracting RST files from Python bindings. 
      Only way to do it is locally generating RST files with breathe and autodoc. 
      Need to find a way to do this at runtime - RTD limitation. Might be way 
      for RTD build server to use Docker container with pre-built OCIO libs
      locally available. Sphinx plugin can rebuild expanded RTS, as a fallback 
      solution.
    - Michael: Anything Autodesk team needs to hit date?
    - Doug: May need help with local doc build, but will reach out. Will then 
      try to get RST files written.
    - Sean: There is a requirements file that pip can be pointed to to install 
      dependencies.

* OSD preparations:
    - Michael: Any interest in talking documentation process at OSD?
    - Carol: Could talk angle of community involvement with docs.
    - Michael: Can also have brief intro to docs to get interest.
    - Doug: Good to have more participation in the BoF.
    - Carol: Sean and I can talk and have slides about process and introducing 
      docs. If there's no Q&A, good to introduce landing point for exploring 
      docs. More important if there's no discussion.
    
* OCIO v2 WG meeting
    - Doug: Will this Thursday work? Will send email. Number of PRs going to 
      land soon. Want to give explanation and guidance about the work. Will 
      discuss the work remaining to be feature complete.
    - TSC agrees this day will work.
