<!-- SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-4.0 -->
<!-- Copyright Contributors to the OpenColorIO Project. -->

March 16, 2020

Host: Michael Dolan

Rotating Secretary: Mark Boorer

Attendees:
  * [X] Mark Boorer (_TSC_) - Industrial Light & Magic
  * [ ] Sean Cooper (_TSC_) - DNEG
  * [X] Michael Dolan (_TSC Chair_) - Epic Games
  * [X] Larry Gritz (_TSC_) - Sony Pictures Imageworks
  * [ ] Patrick Hodoul (_TSC_) - Autodesk
  * [ ] John Mertic - Academy Software Foundation / Linux Foundation
  * [ ] Carl Rand (_TSC_) - Weta Digital
  * [X] Doug Walker (_TSC Chief Architect_) - Autodesk
  * [ ] Kevin Wheatley (_TSC_) - Framestore
  * [X] Bernard Lefebvre - Autodesk
  * [X] Mei Chu - Sony Pictures Imageworks
  * [X] Carol Payne - Netflix
  * [X] Mitch Prater - Laika

# **OCIO TSC Meeting Notes**

* Pull requests that need review.
	- Anyone with experience with UI/UX there is a pull request for the DCC helper library
	- GSOC applicant feedback
	- Proposed display referrence space feedback PR #957

* Python bindings are pretty much done, just need to find a good time to rebase on top of interface changes

* GSOC
	- Lots of applicants, they need feedback, but they should also be doing some of the investigation work themselves

* Supported architectures?
	- OpenColorMath has a JIT that is hand tuned for x64.
	- Do we have a minimum requirement for platform architecture? x64? ARM?
	- The USE_SSE flag could help, as it already imposes a requirement for SSE2

* Documentation
	- What are we looking to do to improve?
	- Introduction of a OCIO Wiki. There are some solutions out there, eg MediaWiki / DokuWiki, that could be added to the OCIO website.
	- The built in github tools also add a user friendly layer (which translate wiki edits to pull requests).
	- Docs that are part of the repo (vs a detatched wiki) can also be versioned with the code, so users never see outdated or incorrect documentation.
	- Linux Foundation? ocio_dev and ocio_user have wiki's as well (but require registration).
	- We should try to consolidate all of these wikis too
