<!-- SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-4.0 -->
<!-- Copyright Contributors to the OpenColorIO Project. -->

January 11, 2021

Host: Doug Walker

Rotating Secretary: Mark Boorer

Attendees:
  * [x] Mark Boorer (_TSC_) - Industrial Light & Magic
  * [x] Mei Chu (_TSC_) - Sony Pictures Imageworks
  * [ ] Sean Cooper (_TSC ACES TAC Rep_) - DNEG
  * [ ] Michael Dolan (_TSC Chair_) - Epic Games
  * [x] Patrick Hodoul (_TSC_) - Autodesk
  * [ ] John Mertic - Academy Software Foundation / Linux Foundation
  * [x] Carol Payne (_TSC_) - Netflix
  * [ ] Mark Titchener (_TSC_) - Foundry
  * [ ] Carl Rand (_TSC_) - Weta Digital
  * [x] Bernard Lefebvre - Autodesk
  * [x] Doug Walker (_TSC Chief Architect_) - Autodesk
  * [x] Kevin Wheatley (_TSC_) - Framestore
  * [x] Deke Kincaid - Digital Domain
  * [x] Joseph Goldstone - ARRI

Apologies:
	Michael Dolan
	Mark Titchner

# **OCIO TSC Meeting Notes**

* Aiming for 2.0.0 release in a few weeks.
	- Merged a bunch of issues identified last week
    - Maya PR (preview) 121 - beta with OCIO v2 features
	  Maya PR 122 to follow shortly with OCIO v2 as default
	  colour management system.

* A few outstanding issues
    - Bug in python bindings
    - Some more cleanups from Autodesk
	- Doug working on a config that shows examples of all 2.0 features


* ACES Working Group gamut mapping, where should it live in OCIO v2
    - Builtin transform or FixedFunction transform?
	  - Needs to be in a FixedFunction to implement accurately
	  - It has parameters that need to be tweaked.
	  - Could have some "presets" mirrored into Builtin transforms if need be.

	- How does adding new Builtins or FixedFunctions relate to OCIO versioning (both config and library)
	  - Would neccessitate a minor version update.
	    - How does that relate to VFX working platform, (which specifies 2.0.x)
	      - Might want to ammend the VFX reference platform as we may have newer patch
	        releases - Doug to investigate
	- More discussion to be had around the addition of the Gamut Mapping implementation
	  as it works through the AMPAS ACES process.

* Discussion about helping migrate tools / users to v2
    - Is there anything more we could do?
	- Might it be useful to have an API endpoint to write our the "lowest" possible
	  config version.
	  - Perhaps this could just be the default behaviour of the API config write

* Reschedule the Documentation working group so it is on alternate weeks to the ACES v2 config working group.
