<!-- SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-4.0 -->
<!-- Copyright Contributors to the OpenColorIO Project. -->

February 1, 2021

Host: Michael Dolan

Attendees:
  * [X] Mark Boorer (_TSC_) - Industrial Light & Magic
  * [X] Mei Chu (_TSC_) - Sony Pictures Imageworks
  * [X] Sean Cooper (_TSC ACES TAC Rep_) - ARRI
  * [X] Michael Dolan (_TSC Chair_) - Epic Games
  * [X] Patrick Hodoul (_TSC_) - Autodesk
  * [ ] John Mertic - Academy Software Foundation / Linux Foundation
  * [X] Carol Payne (_TSC_) - Netflix
  * [X] Mark Titchener (_TSC_) - Foundry
  * [X] Carl Rand (_TSC_) - Weta Digital
  * [X] Doug Walker (_TSC Chief Architect_) - Autodesk
  * [X] Kevin Wheatley (_TSC_) - Framestore
  * [X] Bernard Lefebvre - Autodesk
  * [X] Gonzalo Garramuno
  * [X] Remi Achard - DNEG

# **OCIO TSC Meeting Notes**

* Doug: Brief release update:
    - Doug: Released v2.0.0. Prepared PR to update docs with this status and 
      additional v2 features. Following that merge, will send update to 
      ocio-dev and ocio-user. Emily will help with ASWF blog post.

* GSoC/D&I intern ideas. Volunteers for mentors?
    - Michael: Following up from last week. Do we want to pursue GSoC, and if 
      so what project(s) would we propose?
    - Doug: Worth doing show of hands as to mentorship interest, and in 
      reviewing applications. It's a time commitment.
    - Available: Doug, Patrick, Carol, Mark T, Mei, Michael.
    - Carol: Project ideas due by Feb 20th.
    - Michael: The ffmpeg project from last year might be good for the shorter 
      GSoC project duration.
    - Kevin: Easier now since you can get floating point data in ffmpeg. Maybe 
      not all inputs, but could refine the work.
    - Doug: That was the big unknown last year. Unclear if we could get float 
      data.
    - Kevin: Improvements to OpenEXR reader and software scaler, so better 
      float support.
    - Doug: Another option would be the OFX plugins.
    - **TODO**: Carol will update Wiki page with project ideas. Doug and others 
      can help fill in details.

* UX working group update
    - Michael: Had a good turn out and good discussion around how to have 
      tangible results from the meeting. Group is committed to working on tasks
      between meetings to make progress. Reaching out to more software vendors 
      (Adobe, SideFX, etc.) for possible participation.
    - Kevin: Can't commit to time slot. Have some thoughts about collecting use 
      cases though. Good to have way to share those. Capture thoughts.
    - Doug: Can we change the time?
    - Kevin: Not a time issue, just full schedule.
    - Michael: You can add thoughts to this document, or in a GH issue:
      https://docs.google.com/document/d/1_NS2UMSjbkqoMI_tvdsaOvd8NIYg3MeWQ8pKpXFQEgM/edit?usp=sharing

* How to get the package managers updated?
    - Doug: Would like to have this happen. So users don't need to build from 
      source.
    - Patrick: Discussed vcpkg recently in GH issue and saw the process for 
      updating it. Can try to find that.
    - Doug: Us pushing changes to those package managers, vs. asking others to 
      do it.
    - Mark B: We have never owned those packages. Either send out release email 
      and let maintainers update, or we might have to seek them out and update. 
      Some are open and accept PRs, but Linux distro ones more closed group 
      with specific maintainers.
    - Michael: Simran was looking into Conan. I can continue on pypi when I 
      have time. I set up a project in dev pypi.
    - Patrick: Could get list of package managers in GH issue to see what we 
      want to do. Volunteer, contact people, etc.
    - Carol: Can use checkable list in GH issues for this.
    - Michael: Ongoing CI working group discussion on package managers. Don't 
      need to wait for that, but can perhaps lead it.
    - Patrick: Current GH issues exist for brew and vcpkg.
    - Doug: Has there been CI working group discussion about distribution of 
      artifacts?
    - Michael: That has been in the long term plans, but has not been discussed 
      much yet. Can bring it up at the meeting.

* Headless GPU question:
    - Gonzolo: Ran into issue with oglhelpers opening window when running GPU 
      renderer from commandline app on Ubuntu. Can this be avoided?
    - Doug: Can be avoided with GLX headless option.
    - Patrick: Think it needs to be called explicitly in CMake configuration. 
      We have commandline tools using GPU without windows. If that doesn't 
      work, log an issue and we will investigate.
    - Mark B: Started looking at headless mode. Concerned about it being a 
      compile time flag. Anyone who wants to support a window, needs this off. 
      For package manager, have to make one choice. Currently reference in core
      library in SystemMonitors. Should just affect runtime behavior, not 
      compile time behavior.
    - Patrick: Could be a problem. Was done only for GPU tests on VM.
    - Mark: Might need to clearly comment it so people don't turn it off.
    - Patrick: Will investigate. Shouldn't need window for GPU commandline app. 
      This flag is perhaps ambiguous, so might need to be renamed, or offer 
      better explanation.

* Display-based transform override question:
    - Mei: Can we override transforms based on display type. If display is 
      sRGB for example, is there a way to override a color space to provide 
      custom transform for that display only? Artists may not be aware of a LUT 
      being baked in to image. Looking for mechanism to overrides this when 
      transform for a different display type needed.
    - Kevin: We do something similar. Use specific view to contain special LUT. 
      Can use that cancel out parts of transform.
    - Doug: New machinery in v2. Display color space. Also take a look at 
      viewing rules. Config.getViews function receives display and color space 
      and will filter views based on that. For certain color space, can limit 
      to or reorder views for that.
