<!-- SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-4.0 -->
<!-- Copyright Contributors to the OpenColorIO Project. -->

February 15th, 2021

Host: Doug Walker

Rotating Secretary: Carol Payne

Attendees:
  * [ ] Mark Boorer (_TSC_) - Industrial Light & Magic
  * [ ] Mei Chu (_TSC_) - Sony Pictures Imageworks
  * [ ] Sean Cooper (_TSC ACES TAC Rep_) - ARRI
  * [ ] Michael Dolan (_TSC Chair_) - Epic Games
  * [ ] Patrick Hodoul (_TSC_) - Autodesk
  * [ ] John Mertic - Academy Software Foundation / Linux Foundation
  * [x] Carol Payne (_TSC_) - Netflix
  * [x] Mark Titchener (_TSC_) - Foundry
  * [x] Carl Rand (_TSC_) - Weta Digital
  * [x] Doug Walker (_TSC Chief Architect_) - Autodesk
  * [x] Kevin Wheatley (_TSC_) - Framestore
  * [x] Thomas Mansencal - Weta Digital
  * [x] Remi Achard - DNEG

Apologies:
  Michael Dolan
  Patrick Hodoul
  Mei Chu

# **OCIO TSC Meeting Notes**

* Optimizing Meeting Note Process
    - Doug: Reserving some agenda items for next week when we have better quorum - discussing moving meeting notes to the wiki and followup to the ASWF survey
    - Thomas: Notes in PR does create visibility and ability to comment, what would the alternative be?
    - Doug: No firm proposals yet - possibly in the ASWF wiki
    - Carol: We could probably push notifications from wiki to slack or something
    - Thomas: How do you control history/posterity? Could anyone go in to change the notes?
    - Doug: Definitely need an audit trail. Will discuss more next week. Most of the current PRs in the project are meeting note based, looking to optimize that workflow a bit more.

* Google Summer of Code
    - Doug: high priority this week - the deadline to apply is soon. 
    - Carol: Deadline is Febraury 20. Came up in the TAC last week. No other ASWF projects have submitted proposals, so OCIO could submit on its own but cite ASWF so as to not be a “first time” project. Larry can help with wording there. 
    - Doug: No downside to apply, though there is work sorting through applications and we’ll have to add a bunch of good first issues to the project. In order to submit a proposal to us you have to complete a PR. If anyone has ideas for good first issues, send them my way. 
    - Carol: But we have some time to get that done after we submit the application, right? Will chat with Larry and keep everyone updated, plan to submit the application for OCIO at least by Friday.

* PRs For Review
    - Doug: Next topic is recent PRs for review - couple of issues opened by esteban77, bug that affects the GPU legacy path. Patrick is working on a PR to fix it, hopefully this week. That’s the only bug, there is also a regression on ImageDef, PR for that coming as well. There’s a few more issues that came in over the weekend, mostly build related, that we haven’t looked at yet. Also check out the PR from Thomas in the configs repo, talking more about that in the Configs WG meeting tomorrow. 
    - Carol: The website PR is good. Simple fix. Will approve later today.
    - Doug: There’s the PR from Brendan for the After Effects and Photoshop OCIO plugins, if anyone has time to look at those. There’s also PRs from Mei for python unit tests, but we’ll discuss those next week when Mei is here.
    - Kevin: Should we spend time as a group going through the open issues? 
    - Doug: Yes, and a bunch have been fixed with V2.
    - Kevin: Yeah, some are tagged with GSoC and good first issue, would be helpful to review those and make sure they are still relevant.
    - Carol: Maybe set time week after next to review issues in the TSC meeting?
    - Kevin: Yes, we should do oldest issues first! 
    - Doug: Thanks all, reminder there is a Config WG meeting tomorrow, and ACES TAC meetings Wednesday and Thursday at 1pm PT. Open to all. 
    

