<!-- SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-4.0 -->
<!-- Copyright Contributors to the OpenColorIO Project. -->

January 25, 2021

Host: Michael Dolan

Attendees:
  * [X] Mark Boorer (_TSC_) - Industrial Light & Magic
  * [X] Mei Chu (_TSC_) - Sony Pictures Imageworks
  * [X] Sean Cooper (_TSC ACES TAC Rep_) - ARRI
  * [X] Michael Dolan (_TSC Chair_) - Epic Games
  * [X] Patrick Hodoul (_TSC_) - Autodesk
  * [ ] John Mertic - Academy Software Foundation / Linux Foundation
  * [X] Carol Payne (_TSC_) - Netflix
  * [X] Mark Titchener (_TSC_) - Foundry
  * [X] Carl Rand (_TSC_) - Weta Digital
  * [X] Doug Walker (_TSC Chief Architect_) - Autodesk
  * [X] Kevin Wheatley (_TSC_) - Framestore
  * [X] Bernard Lefebvre - Autodesk
  * [X] J Schulte - Industrial Light & Magic

# **OCIO TSC Meeting Notes**

* Move apps to OpenColorIO-Apps repo? Or a separate CMake project?
    - J: Yes, break them up.
    - Kevin: Suggest splitting CMake instead of using separate repo.
    - Michael: Separate repo would create version dependency between them.
    - Patrick: Some apps make sense to keep with core, but strange for some to 
      be out of repo.
    - Sean: Good to distinguish between OCIO apps and utilities. Utils include 
      ocioperf, ociocheck, etc. Apps like ociodisplay, ocioconvert, etc.
    - Patrick: ociodisplay more of an integration example.
    - Sean: ociodisplay and ocioconvert are useful for debugging CPU/GPU 
      renderer and finding cause of artifacts.
    - Michael: If we split within repo, do we have two builds or just an apps 
      option, like we have now but defulting to OFF.
    - Mark B: CMake doesn't do well with finding internal dependencies. Won't 
      see the installed version of lib. Will try to rebuild and link against 
      it. Benefit of separate repo is no cross-dependency between app and lib. 
      Could be in one repo, and change dependencies of apps to depend on new 
      installed target. Needs to be done in two steps.
    - Patrick: Becomes an additional process for development.
    - Mark B: Could write Cmake module to find lib if it exists locally.
    - Carol: Or back to what Michael was working on, swapping in OpenEXR.
    - Mark B: Since half moving out of OpenEXR, can move to use Imath to get 
      half instead. Can then remove OpenEXR depenency from OCIO core.
    - Sean: Why does ocioperf depend on OIIO. Can it just generate noise image? 
      Worth looking into. Makes more sense for consistency. Can create all data 
      types.
    - Patrick: Yes, goal of tool to measure color transformation, not image IO. 
      Could generate in memory image.
    - Doug: Performance can change with image IO because of cache usage. 
    - Sean: Clean to have utils be internal projects that don't depend on 
      third-party libs, and apps to depend on third-party. Might invite devs of 
      other apps too.
    - Patrick: ocioperf generating live image based on critereon could be good 
      work to do sooner.
    - **TODO**: Michael will update issue with recent discussion points. 
      Continue offline discussion to agree on an approach proposal. 

* ASWF 2020 CCLA 2.1 transition:
    - Michael: Propose to switch to this CLA, but with a more gradual 
      transition. Start getting them signed over next two months, and then flip 
      switch once most contributors are covered.
    - All sounds good.
    - Doug: Brings us closer to original ASWF premise. Simplify contributions.
    - Patrick: No problem, but suggest no changes for first four weeks of OCIO 
      v2.

* Release discussion:
    - Michael: Thanks to Doug for adding remaining ACES builtin transforms over 
      the weekend! Aweomse work. Ok with calling OCIO v2 done?
    - Doug: Think everything is ready. Delayed as long as we can. In CY2021 now. 
      It's time to move forward.
    - Multiple TSC members and others in community have been testing and using 
      it prior to release. Agree it's ready to ship. Exciting!
    - Huge thanks for Autodesk, Doug, Patrick, Bernard, TSC, and community. 
      Awesome accomplishment that will have great impact on our industries!

* 2021 leadership thread:
    - Michael: Reminder to TSC members to check out the maillist thread on TSC 
      leadership for 2021.

* GSoC 2021:
    - Carol: Talking with Larry about internship with D&I. GSoC has half the 
      hours and stipend this year compared to last year. Email on tac maillist. 
      GSoC deadline coming up soon. Are there smaller chunks of work to propose 
      for OCIO? Details around ASWF sponsored interships not finalized yet, but 
      got budget approved. Asked for three full time students. Sourcing diverse 
      candidates. Don't have existing network, so more challenging to get 
      going. Since not every project got GSoC students last summer, can take 
      that into account for this year. For GSoC, same mentor time requirement, 
      but possibly less student time. Could do docs perhaps too.
    - Michael: Additional GPU render path (i.e. CUDA)?
    - Patrick: Good but big. Maybe too much. A lot of work.
    - Carol: GSoC student can still work full time, but might be compressed 
      timeline. For D&I, full summer, mimicing previous GSoC full time 
      schedule. For D&I internship, going to use LF platform for communication 
      and progress tracking, etc. Have more control of process. Inclusion 
      focused with more emphasis on introductions to the industry and how we 
      use the project in jobs, etc. Mentorship can be shared by multiple 
      people.
    - TSC agrees it would be great to have D&I and/or GSoC intern, based on
      student interest and available mentor(s). We could go for one in 
      particular, but since the outcome of applications is hard to predict, 
      considering both could be an option too, so that we could get at least 
      one intern. Group will think about potential projects and make a decision
      on approach next week. In either scenario it's a win for the project and 
      student.
    - Doug: How many willing to be mentors? Will need to review applicants.
    - Patrick: Reviewing proposals is good test for mentoring too.
    - Carol: All ASWF projects are specialized. Hoping to source people from 
      upcoming D&I webinars. Hosting career and software developer based 
      webinars. Tie back into indistry with how things work. Why is OSS 
      important, etc.
    - Patrick: Could also think about one or two lines about project to raise 
      interest.

* UX Working Group:
    - Michael: At last docs working group discussed transitioning to UX working 
      group, which will help with v2 adoption and docs and examples. Starts 
      this Friday, led by Mark T and myself.
    - Mark B: Will TSC meeting frequency change? There are a lot of open source 
      meetings to attend.
    - Michael: Yes, we did talk previously about reducing cadence once v2 was 
      released. Once or twice a month?
    - Doug: Every other week ideal. Important time to make sure rollout is 
      succesfull. 
    - Michael: Every other week starting in March?
    - TSC agrees on cadence change starting in March.
    - Mark B: Will Autodesk involvement change with v2 rollout?
    - Doug: Patrick and I will stay involved. More features to do for 2.x 
      release. Pace of work will slow, but will continue contributions. Been 
      encouraging to see AD step forward and contribute. Hope others do too. 
      Makes a difference to get people focused on it. Part of AWSF about 
      getting members to contribute. Been critical to have this group's 
      participation. We've enjoyed the experience a lot.
    - Michael: ASWF premier members do have an FTE expectation. Think there 
      was intent to make that more of a focus a couple years in, so perhaps 
      will more of a topic this year.

* Items for next TSC meeting agenda:
    - GSoC ideas for next week. Willing mentors.
