<!-- SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-4.0 -->
<!-- Copyright Contributors to the OpenColorIO Project. -->

October 21, 2019

Host: Michael Dolan

Rotating Secretary: Doug Walker

Attendees:
  * [ ] Mark Boorer (_TSC_) - Industrial Light & Magic
  * [ ] Sean Cooper (_TSC_) - DNEG
  * [X] Michael Dolan (_TSC Chair_) - Sony Pictures Imageworks
  * [ ] Larry Gritz (_TSC_) - Sony Pictures Imageworks
  * [X] Patrick Hodoul (_TSC_) - Autodesk
  * [X] John Mertic - Academy Software Foundation / Linux Foundation
  * [X] Carl Rand (_TSC_) - Foundry
  * [X] Doug Walker (_TSC Chief Architect_) - Autodesk
  * [X] Kevin Wheatley (_TSC_) - Framestore
  * [X] Bernard Lefebvre - Autodesk

# **OCIO TSC Meeting Notes**

* GPU CI Enablement
    - Michael logged a ticket with LF to take advantage of AWS GPU instances offered by Sean Looper.
    - Michael Johnson from Apple is also investigating getting us GPU CI support for MacOS.

* 1.1.2 Release
    - As discussed earlier, there are several small fixes that could be rolled into a 1.1.2 release.
    - Discussed what the time frame might be for this in order to best help client apps.
        - Nuke 12 has already shipped with 1.1.1.
    - We are still thinking of doing a 1.1.2 later in the year, but are not targeting a specific date yet.

* Active Display/View Error Handling
    - Doug/Patrick: We are looking to fix some long-standing issues with active displays/views.
    - Is anyone opposed to throwing an exception if a supplied active display/view doesn't exist?
    - The logic around default display/view is a bit confusing (e.g. alphabetical vs. config order).
    - The group agreed that there are issues that should be cleaned up.
