<!-- SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-4.0 -->
<!-- Copyright Contributors to the OpenColorIO Project. -->

November 18, 2019

Host: Michael Dolan

Rotating Secretary: Doug Walker

Attendees:
  * [ ] Mark Boorer (_TSC_) - Industrial Light & Magic
  * [x] Sean Cooper (_TSC_) - DNEG
  * [x] Michael Dolan (_TSC Chair_) - Sony Pictures Imageworks
  * [x] Larry Gritz (_TSC_) - Sony Pictures Imageworks
  * [x] Patrick Hodoul (_TSC_) - Autodesk
  * [ ] John Mertic - Academy Software Foundation / Linux Foundation
  * [ ] Carl Rand (_TSC_) - Foundry
  * [x] Doug Walker (_TSC Chief Architect_) - Autodesk
  * [x] Kevin Wheatley (_TSC_) - Framestore
  * [X] Bernard Lefebvre - Autodesk

# **OCIO TSC Meeting Notes**

* Problems with the CI queue
    - Patrick: The CI system has been having problems with jobs not running properly.
      We need a manual way to restart the CI builds/checks.
    - Michael: We lost the feature when the repo moved from Imageworks over to LF.

* Admin access
    - Michael: There is a discussion going on at the TAC member level about admin 
      access to the GitHub repo.  Other projects also want more access.  Need to 
      balance this against LFRE policies.  Stay tuned ...

* GPU CI
    - Doug: This was discussed at last week's TAC CI working group.  It was identified
      as a goal to have this working for OCIO by year's end.  JF Panisset proposed a 
      list of suitable hardware instances on Azure, AWS, Google.  AZP does not support
      dynamic instancing yet but it was agreed to move forward anyway.
    - Michael: I updated our ticket with LFRE to ask them to move forward with the
      AWS option.  Hopefully dynamic instancing will be available in a few months.
    - Michael: I'm working with John Mertic to try and get access for more people to
      be able to see our OCIO LFRE tickets.

* PR #884 Optimization
    - Doug: This is a big piece of work from the Autodesk team to upgrade the transform
      chain optimization process, building on the foundation that was in OCIO and
      adding a lot of new capabilities and unit tests.  The starting point for doing
      your review should be OpOptimizers.cpp.  We will go into more detail at the
      OCIO v2 working group meeting on Wednesday.

* ACES Implementation TAC
    - Sean: The first ACES Implementation TAC meeting is tomorrow.  Sean and Kevin are
      on the TAC and Doug is chairing the CLF Implementation VWG.  Everyone is welcome
      to attend via GoToMeeting, details are on ACESCentral.
    - Michael: Perhaps it would be useful to bring up the topic of how to transition
      the OCIO-Configs repo.

* Misc. Items
    - Patrick: Is anyone else having problems with git pull not returning the latest commit?
        - Kevin: I just tried it and seem to be getting the latest commit.
    - Doug: Please join us for the OCIO v2 working group meeting on Wednesday.
