<!-- SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-4.0 -->
<!-- Copyright Contributors to the OpenColorIO Project. -->

September 9, 2019

Host: Michael Dolan

Rotating Secretary: Kevin Wheatley

Attendees:
  * [X] Mark Boorer (_TSC_) - Industrial Light & Magic
  * [ ] Sean Cooper (_TSC_) - DNEG
  * [X] Michael Dolan (_TSC Chair_) - Sony Pictures Imageworks
  * [X] Larry Gritz (_TSC_) - Sony Pictures Imageworks
  * [X] Patrick Hodoul (_TSC_) - Autodesk
  * [X] John Mertic - Academy Software Foundation / Linux Foundation
  * [X] Carl Rand (_TSC_) - Foundry
  * [X] Doug Walker (_TSC Chief Architect_) - Autodesk
  * [X] Kevin Wheatley (_TSC_) - Framestore
  * [ ] Bernard Lefebvre - Autodesk


# **OCIO TSC Meeting Notes**

* Granting Kevin Wheatley rights to act as an approver for pull requests (write access). Approved **Michael to action in github**

* GPU host for CI infrastructure, funding is approved. We really only need lower end GPU capabilities, but does need to be real hardware.

  Need to call out to TAC? John queried Andy@LF on progress, challenge with creating dynamic builders with GPU resources.

  Carl noted that it may be worth having some variety of hardware vendors as they have different compliance levels with OpenGL.

  **Invite Andy to next weeks TSC Meeting**

* John reported that the governing board approved the license waivers. This should be the last hurdle to migrating the repository to the ASWF.

  Contributers will thus need to have their CLA signed.

  Query over the status of the Autodesk CLA, it should have been done.

  **Michael to drop the TAC an email, requesting migration**

  **Doug to approve license pull request #799**

* Issue with Azure builds not passing status check to github, help request is in with Microsoft.

* Python bindings discussion around trying to improve automatic generation of bindings. Autodesk to take a look at what could be done to smooth out this.

  Michael noted that we need a way to handle read only objects in python.

  Explanation around the use of shared_ptr<> with private destructors.

  **Michael to submit example pull request** showing how it could be if we did not have private destructors so the team can better understand the issue and offer suggestions.

