<!-- SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-4.0 -->
<!-- Copyright Contributors to the OpenColorIO Project. -->

April 01, 2019

Host: Michael Dolan

Rotating Secretary: Patrick Hodoul

Attendees:
  * [x] Mark Boorer (_TSC_) - Industrial Light & Magic
  * [x] Sean Cooper (_TSC_) - DNEG
  * [X] Michael Dolan (_TSC Chair_) - Sony Pictures Imageworks
  * [X] Larry Gritz (_TSC_) - Sony Pictures Imageworks
  * [ ] Thanh Ha - Academy Software Foundation / Linux Foundation
  * [X] Patrick Hodoul (_TSC_) - Autodesk
  * [X] John Mertic - Academy Software Foundation / Linux Foundation
  * [X] Carl Rand (_TSC_) - Foundry
  * [X] Doug Walker (_TSC Chief Architect_) - Autodesk
  * [X] Kevin Wheatley (_TSC_) - Framestore
  * [X] Bernard Lefebvre - Autodesk

# **OCIO TSC Meeting Notes**

* PR review, secretary rotations
    - We agreed on the principle and on the list published to ocio-tsc-private@lists.aswf.io
      Here is the message link: https://lists.aswf.io/g/ocio-tsc-private/message/20

* OCIO 1.1.1 Release
    - We agreed to officially 'publish' the release.
    - Larry G. mentioned to add collaboration notice.
    - John M.: Emily Olin (LF PR person) will do a press release for the 1.1.1 release and post to social media.
    - John M.: Would be great to have someone from OCIO sit in on the ASWF Outreach committee.
    - Michael D. is currently discussing with 'VFX Reference Platform'.
    - Michael volunteered to do the follow-up.

* ACES config license/repo
    - Michael prepared a PR (#17 from https://github.com/imageworks/OpenColorIO-Configs) to add the requested copyright notices.
    - Thomas Mansencal will be working on updating the ACES config to support ACES 1.1.
    - License:
       - Academy owns these configs and code (i.e. Python scripts).
       - Clarify with the Academy if they would be willing to use a standard OSS license.
    - Mark B.: Do not know any studio using as-is these configurations.
       - Carl R.: Nuke is using them.
       - Doug W.: Small shops use them as-is.
    - Comments: The Academy considers the CTL implementation as the reference i.e. not the OCIO configs.
    - Mark B. / Doug W.: 
       - Anyway, these configs could be generated (using Python code) so generated files 
         should be considered as binaries.
       - It's important for less sophisticated users to be able to download pre-built configs 
         from somewhere (e.g. Academy website?) but the LUTs themselves do not need to be 
         in the repo as GitHub does not handle these well.

* Updates on current action items
    - Mark B.: We're still working on the ext update.
    - Doug W.: We held a v2 working group meeting last week on Zoom.
       - Patrick H.: Discussion around the PR #699 (i.e. pixel format support) went well
                     so I will now move forward if no objections.

* TSC meeting cadence
    - Michael D.: Is the meeting cadence fine?
       - Larry G.: As long as the transition to the ASWF isn't completed, the cadence is good.
    - No objections to continue with a TSC meeting per week.

* Misc:
    - John M.: Still working on the CLA, facing some challenges but it's moving.
    - Larry G.: What happen with old branches (i.e. release ones) once the transition is completed?
       - John M.: Do what has to be done for old branches.
