<!-- SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-4.0 -->
<!-- Copyright Contributors to the OpenColorIO Project. -->

May 6, 2019

Host: Michael Dolan

Rotating Secretary: Patrick Hodoul

Attendees:
  * [ ] Mark Boorer (_TSC_) - Industrial Light & Magic
  * [ ] Sean Cooper (_TSC_) - DNEG
  * [X] Michael Dolan (_TSC Chair_) - Sony Pictures Imageworks
  * [X] Larry Gritz (_TSC_) - Sony Pictures Imageworks
  * [X] Patrick Hodoul (_TSC_) - Autodesk
  * [ ] John Mertic - Academy Software Foundation / Linux Foundation
  * [ ] Carl Rand (_TSC_) - Foundry
  * [X] Doug Walker (_TSC Chief Architect_) - Autodesk
  * [ ] Kevin Wheatley (_TSC_) - Framestore
  * [X] Bernard Lefebvre - Autodesk

# **OCIO TSC Meeting Notes**

* TSC Meeting:
    - What is the quorum magic number and limitations?
        - Charter requires 2/3 of members for quorum 
          and says attendees "will be prevented from making any decisions at the meeting".
    - Ask at the next TAC meeting if changes to quorum rules should be made.

* Azure Pipeline:
    - Last ASWF CI meeting, it seems to move in the Azure direction.
        - May: CI build (i.e. Azure pipeline)
        - June: Static analysis (Sonar Cloud) and security
        - July: Dependency management
        - Michael D.: Currently exploring Azure pipeline.
            - Patrick H.: Will have a look to understand build breaks.

    - Michael D.: OCIO still has the 'ext' dependencies.

* Platforms / Compilers for CI builds:
    - What are the expectations?
    - Are VFX platform recommendations enough?
        - Patrick H.: OCIO needs more.
    - Michael D.: Will do a matrix, and send to all TSC members for review.

* Package Manager:
    - Michael D.: Conda seems nice and multiplatform.

* Meeting cadence:
    - Doug W.: Questioning about the meeting cadence and attendances.
    - Michael D.: Will poke on the TSC Slack channel to have feedback.
    - Doug W.: Time could change to better accomodate UK members.
    - Patrick H.: Past experiences with UK the meeting was later to let folks be home.

* Code transition to ASWF:
    - Larry G.: CLA finalization is waiting for the OCIO code move to ASWF repo
                and the code transition waits for the 'ext' third-party library changes.
    - Larry G.: What is the status of the 'ext' third-party library transition?
    - Michael D.: Will poke on the TSC Slack channel to have status.
