<!-- SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-4.0 -->
<!-- Copyright Contributors to the OpenColorIO Project. -->

January 13, 2020

Host: Michael Dolan

Rotating Secretary: Michael Dolan

Attendees:
  * [ ] Mark Boorer (_TSC_) - Industrial Light & Magic
  * [X] Sean Cooper (_TSC_) - DNEG
  * [X] Michael Dolan (_TSC Chair_) - Epic Games
  * [ ] Larry Gritz (_TSC_) - Sony Pictures Imageworks
  * [X] Patrick Hodoul (_TSC_) - Autodesk
  * [ ] John Mertic - Academy Software Foundation / Linux Foundation
  * [ ] Carl Rand (_TSC_) - Weta Digital
  * [X] Doug Walker (_TSC Chief Architect_) - Autodesk
  * [ ] Kevin Wheatley (_TSC_) - Framestore
  * [X] Bernard Lefebvre - Autodesk
  * [X] Carol Payne - Netflix
  * [X] Dennis Adams - Sony

Apologies:
  Larry Gritz

# **OCIO TSC Meeting Notes**

* ASWF Plenary Meeting topics
    - Michael: Meeting on Jan 30th in LA. We have been invited to give bigger 
      update due to OCIO v2 release coming later in the year.
    - Doug: We presented 4 slides last year. There are more projects this 
      year, which could mean less time to present.
    - Michael: Since OCIO v2 has been widely anticipated, it is a notable event
      for the foundation this year. We could recap some of what was presented at 
      SIGGRAPH.
    - Doug: People may not care about features much, since there won't be a lot 
      of color management people. We could talk about logistics of the v2 rollout, 
      testing, and deployment, etc.
    - Michael: There could be interest in ACES features since it's two Academy 
      projects converging; and  the recent performance improvements.
    - Doug: We can use the bar graph progress slide for a quick summary, and show 
      roadmap.
    - Michael: We don't have to cover every point, but could highlight it.
    - **TODO**: Michael will put a prospective outline in Slack for discussion.
    - **TODO**: Doug will share slides from last year.

* Spark BOF updates
    - This BOF will be 30 minutes and have less technical audience. We can trim 
      back the presentation to focus it.
    - **TODO** Sean to work with Mario on topics to present. Maybe Mark can 
      similarly work with Matthias.
    - Doug: There's nothing about an intro to OCIO in deck. Need to add that.
    - Sean: Can use readme from website and GH as a start.
    - Michael: Might be good slides for Mario and Matthias to put together, since 
      they are presenting.
    - Patrick: Would be good to have OCIO intro document in general, since it's 
      something that doesn't currently exist.
    - Carol: Some docs being made at Netflix about OCIO which could be shared.
    - **TODO**: Carol will try to share some of the OCIO docs she makes. Thanks!
