<!-- SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-4.0 -->
<!-- Copyright Contributors to the OpenColorIO Project. -->

June 29, 2020

Host: Michael Dolan

Rotating Secretary: Michael Dolan

Attendees:
  * [X] Mark Boorer (_TSC_) - Industrial Light & Magic
  * [X] Mei Chu (_TSC_) - Sony Pictures Imageworks
  * [X] Sean Cooper (_TSC ACES TAC Rep_) - DNEG
  * [X] Michael Dolan (_TSC Chair_) - Epic Games
  * [X] Patrick Hodoul (_TSC_) - Autodesk
  * [ ] John Mertic - Academy Software Foundation / Linux Foundation
  * [X] Carol Payne (_TSC_) - Netflix
  * [X] Mark Titchener (_TSC_) - Foundry
  * [ ] Carl Rand (_TSC_) - Weta Digital
  * [X] Doug Walker (_TSC Chief Architect_) - Autodesk
  * [X] Kevin Wheatley (_TSC_) - Framestore
  * [X] Bernard Lefebvre - Autodesk
  * [X] Troy Sobotka

Apologies:
  NONE

# **OCIO TSC Meeting Notes**

* Open source day, DigiPro, SIGGRAPH plans:
    - Michael: Plans not final yet for Open Source Day, but between these 
      events, how do we want to announce and present the OCIO v2 release.
    - Both DigiPro and OSD are 25 minute presentations.
    - Patrick: These are not enough time for all of v2.
    - Doug: Main thing at SIGGRAPH is to get the word out, get it on people's 
      radar. SIGGRAPH will be a busy time with many zoom meetings over those 
      weeks. We'll probably want to do something longer after.
    - Patrick: Would the audience be the same as with the v2 working group?
    - Doug: Would be bigger group. We do want to have a presentation more for 
      developers that want to upgrade their app to use v2.
    - Patrick: How do we make sure we have these people? How do we get more 
      people who are less active in other discussions.
    - Carol: If we have a presentation at SIGGRAPH, part of that could be to 
      bring up when questions can be discussed at a later, less formal, event.
    - Michael: Could we do the longer meeting as a Bof? To also leverage the 
      SIGGRAPH schedule?
    - Sean: Will be good to have something on the schedule. Get the initial 
      discussion, updates, etc. to the general audience, and invite them to 
      something specific afterwords. May be able to put out word at the VFX 
      Reference Platform discussion.
    - Carol: Can the DigiPro talk be done twice? Once at OSD, once at DigiPro?
    - Doug: OSD might require more practical project related topics to cover. 
      We have a lot of material to cover. Could talk at OSD about case study 
      of OCIO joining ASWF.
    - Patrick: ASWF will provide a forum, but we can decide how to use that 
      time and what content to cover.
    - DigiPro to focus more on technical part of paper; OSD to focus more on
      admin aspects of project, and as an invite to longer BoF session; BoF 
      to provide longer update and discussion forum. The BoF could also be 
      replaced by a later independent event if needed.

* Summer vacations:
    - Patrick out second half of July.
    - Michael out next week.

* OpenColorIO-Config-ACES meeting tomorrow:
    - Continue discussion on initial work to design and build the config. 4pm 
      EST, 1pm PST.

* Pending PRs:
    - Close to feature complete. Please have a look to keep reviews moving.
    - Sean: PRs with multiple contributors are getting complicated. Not now, 
      but we may want to explore using shared feature branches in main repo for 
      collaboration. Topic for future discussion.
    - Patrick: Student actively working on headless rendering support. Making 
      great progress, but currently encountering CI failures. Headed in the 
      right direction.
    - Mark: Making progress on OpenColorMath. Currently working on the JIT 
      evaluator.

* Slack #helpdesk channel:
    - Sean: Added a new #helpdesk channel to Slack to help with general 
      questions. With self-signup being active that will be a good place to
      manage those discussions.

* V2 Working Group Discussion:
    - Kevin: Looks like last v2 update got cut short based on slides. Anything 
      more to discuss?
    - Doug: Will set up another meeting in near future. More to discuss around 
      caching and context variables.
